---
title: 科研写作摘抄
date: 2020-04-22
tags: 英语
---

记录积累一些平时阅读文献过程中遇到的比较不错或者较为常用的表达方式，自己写的时候好照葫芦画瓢，当下英语水平不高，实为偷懒之举。<!--more-->

## 用词

- 用**reasonably**来形容数据与理论吻合得**相当的**不错。

> All the data are seen to lie *reasonably* close to the theoretical value
> It is seen that the data agree *reasonably* well with the weak interaction theory
> the experimental data are in *reasonable* agreement with the theory
> the simple method just stated appears to be a *reasonable* approach to including the effect of the entropy layer.

- **derive from** 来源于，得自

> dsmcFoam+ is designed entirely in object-oriented C++ and, the majority of its classes are therefore *derived from* existing OpenFOAM classes

- **whereby** 凭借，通过……

> We propose methods *whereby* the constant-property solutions can be corrected in a simple manner to take this influence into consideration.
> The Prandtl number is the ratio of the viscosity (responsible for the energy dissipation) to the thermal diffusivity (associated with the mechanism *whereby* heat escapes from the boundary layer).

- **substantially** 大体上，相当多地、大大地

> Calculations for flow between parallel planes yield *substantially*(大体上) the same results for the friction coefficient as were obtained for the circular tube under the same assumptions. However, the results for the Nusselt number are *substantially*(大大地) different.

- **upper and lower** 上，下

> the subscripts "I" and "II" refer to quantities given at the *upper and lower* plates respectively.
> 不要用up和dowm。

## 句式

- **Similar remarks can be made for ...**
- **Similar remarks apply to ...**
- 对于某某也有同样的结果

> The ratio of shear stress to the product of ordinary viscosity and velocity gradient, which
is unity for a Newtonian fluid, here depends also on the gas density, the plate temperatures and the plate spacing. *Similar remarks can be made for* the ratio of heat flux to the product of ordinary heat conduction coefficient and temperature gradient.

## 概述

- 介绍DSMC

> The direct simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) technique is a stochastic particle-based method for simulating dilute gas flow problems. The method was pioneered by Bird in the 1960s and has since become one of the most accepted methods for solving gas flows in the non-equilibrium Knudsen number regime.

- 为什么是“小钝头”

> The leading edges of the construction elements of a hypersonic aircraft (e.g., air-inlet cowl) must have a certain blunting for the reduction of both the heat flow to the leading edge and its maximum temperature. On the other hand, the blunting radius of the leading edge should be limited in order to avoid worsening of the aerodynamic characteristics of the aircraft.
